## Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

### Pre-requisites
* Ensure the unziped raw dataset is in the working directory. You can download the raw data from [here]: https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip
* You need to have the `dplyr` package installed

### Explanation of the raw data
Test `subjects` (people) were asked to do `activities`. Measurements (`features`) were taken using the gyroscope and the accelerometer in their Samsung phones. The resulting data was arbitarily split into two separate datasets - Test and Train. Both datasets have the same format so they can easily be merged.
* `UCI HAR Dataset/features.txt` - contains the name of the measurement taken. This is the header for the train and test data tables
* `UCI HAR Dataset/activity_labels.txt` - contains the activity label and ID
* `UCI HAR Dataset/test/X_test.txt` - meaurements taken for the Test group
* `UCI HAR Dataset/test/subject_test.txt` - the subjects in the Test group. Each observation in the Test group is for a corresponding subject. I.e. first row of the Test dataset links to the first row of the subject_test dataset
* `UCI HAR Dataset/test/subject_test.txt` - the activity IDs of the activities that were measured in the Test dataset
* `UCI HAR Dataset/train/X_train.txt` - meaurements taken for the Train group
* `UCI HAR Dataset/train/subject_train.txt` - the subjects in the Train group. Each observation in the Train group is for a corresponding subject. I.e. first row of the Train dataset links to the first row of the subject_train dataset
* `UCI HAR Dataset/train/subject_train.txt` - the activity IDs of the activities that were measured in the Train dataset


### File list
1. `README.md` - this file
2. `CodeBook.md` - describes the variables and the dataset
3. `tidy.txt` - export of summary data generated by the `run_analysis.R` script
4. `run_analysis.R` - tidies the raw data and create a summary table of mean values by action and by subject
  1. Loads all data sets
  2. Merges Train and Test data
  3. Adds activity ID and subject columns
  4. Filters for the required columns - activity, subject, and mean and std columns
  5. Adds descriptive names for the variables
  6. Summarises the tidy data by calculating the means for all the variables grouped by activity and subjet
  7. Exports the summarised data to a txt file

